Israel has hit a hospital in Gaza with
an air strike killing hundreds of
Palestinians it's the most lethal attack
since the start of Israel's assault on
the besieged trip on October the 7th
following an incursion by Hamas into
Southern Israel that killed 1300
Israelis Tuesday's air strike targeted
the alah Baptist Hospital in central
Gaza at least 500 people are now
confirmed dead it's believed thousands
of civilians were inside the hospital at
the time of the attack some were
patients while many were seeking shelter
from Israeli bombardments earlier in the
day at least six Palestinians were
killed in another attack on a un run
School Dimitri medena begins our
coverage bodies in the hundreds
scattered across the backyard of a
hospital a scene many have described as
a
massacre the result of a deadly air
strike my son that you can see here on
my phone my wife just told me he died he
was sitting with us and all of a sudden
he disappeared hundreds of families were
Sheltering in the territory of the Al
Ali Baptist Hospital displaced people
looking for shelter after their homes
were destroyed in 11 days of non-stop
bombardment we were told the Red Cross
asked the hospital to let the civilians
in which had Di and suddenly rockets and
missiles started falling on all the
civilians who were there including women
and children who had their bodies
dismembered no one was
spared hospitals are protected by the
first Geneva Convention it states that
medical personnel and Facilities cannot
be attacked under any
circumstances if they strike a hospital
that means they have no limitations
they've given the green light to execute
all Palestinians it means they can shoot
us here as
well less than an hour before the the
air strike Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu said civilian safety
in Gaza is the responsibility of Hamas
war criminals they're committing a
double War crime attacking civilians
hiding behind civilians as human Shields
the entire world should condemn it and
should support Israel in its just War
this strike comes just hours after a un
protected school was hit killing at
least six people as Israel's blockade of
Gaza continues it's 2.2 million
residents remain trapped with no certain
safe place to hide from Israel's attacks
Demitri medeno Al
jazer well let's get more on this now
from TK Abu AUM he joins us live from
Han Yunis that's in southern Gaza at
TK's earlier we saw that horrific
bombing uh of the Arab Baptist Hospital
500 people killed just bring us up to
date with the latest on the
attack well uh just before a couple of
hours uh this hospital has been been
maded by the Israeli occupation forces
claiming the lives of more than 500
Palestinians those 500 Palestinians are
are really uh the majority of them were
civilians they were just residing in the
in the complex itself it thought that
they they say they think that this place
is entirely safe for them uh those
people who were evacuated from the from
the houses northern areas of of of the
Gaza strep they thought that they will
be entirely secured inside these
buildings and inside even the the around
suring areas of this complex this
building has been uh bombarded without
any kind of a prior warning uh till this
current moment the number of casualties
is still uh little bit unknown waiting
for further confirmation by the
Palestinian Ministry of Health inside
the Gaza Strip uh this incident really
uh can put other hospitals at the same
level of risk that it might it might be
also bombarded uh you are talking about
different hospitals inside the Gaza
Strip are quite similar to the uh to the
hospital of Al alab which continue which
really contains a lot of residents who
are trying to be uh to be protected
while they are residing inside the
complex itself for example a shifat
hospital contains more than 30,000
Palestinians who are who are just
sitting on the grounds of the of the
hospital and even they are trying to
feel a little bit safe inside these
medical complex yeah and tck as you've
been telling us over the last few days I
mean most hospitals in Gaza are now
close to collapse so what's happening
then uh to the casualties from at the
Baptist uh Hospital bombing and where
are they being
taken well uh generally the medical
health uh Cur system inside the Gaza
Strip is witnessing massive deter in
terms of the medical supplies the
Israeli occupation forces continues
continue to pan the injury of any
medical supply even if you to generate
uh enough electricity for the hospitals
hospitals right now inside the Gaza
Strip are working uh on their minimum
capabilities in order to uh provide
different kinds of Medical Care dis
despite the fact that the even the
medical teams have been bombarded and
even killed by the Israeli occupation
forces air strikes so uh the the current
condition inside these hospitals are
really are witnessing such a great
shortage of every of every medical
supply and even medical drugs different
pharmaceutical warehouses were even
debled uh even the inside the bank blood
inside the Gaza Strip in different
hospitals were also run out so it seems
that the current situation in these
hospitals won't really continue as the
same level as it was before uh due to
the Israeli ongoing closure of borders
and even the the the prevention of
injury of medical supplies yeah t and
given the ongoing Israeli blockade and
those air strikes you've just described
I mean how are Palestinians getting the
basics I mean Food Water Shelter the
humanitarian situation is clearly
getting
worse well Palestinians really are
struggling in order to uh to get their
basic needs inside the Gaza Strip they
depend on the local uh Market of the
Palestinian territory inside the Gaza
stroke they are consuming every single
product inside this market now with the
with the with the ongoing closure of
every of borders and the prevention of
the entry of Food Supplies Palestinians
will deplete all of the possible
products in the market which can bring
us to to a possible or potential uh
starvation if there is no any
International intervention talk plays to
provide Gaza with the humanitarian AIDS
and Tark you've now moved South um in
the Gaza Strip down to KH Yunis what's
the situation there where you are
then well uh the situation right now
Kana city is similar to other other
other other cities inside the Gaza Strip
uh bombardment is everywhere in the
entire Gaza Strip uh simply because uh
just before a couple of hours uh
different bombardments tooking place in
Kana City uh leading to the death of uh
several uh people and even to the uh
injury of others it's important also to
mention to mention that there there was
during the last couple of days a mass uh
displacement uh waves from the
Palestinians who are living in the
Northern and Central areas of the Gaza
Strip thinking that this place is going
to be much more safe meanwhile every
single corner of the Gaza Strip had been
bombarded and hit by the Israeli
occupation forces now with the more
densely populated population that had
been uh right now in khuna City it seems
that this area has been more densely
populated which really can Pro such a
such significant uh pressure and loads
of medical teams in order to keep
providing a treatment for the wounded
people who are just turning to the
hospital from time to another all right
tar Abu aim live for us there in hanun
in southern Gaza Tark thank
you well the hospital Massacre has
triggered Mass protests in O in the
occupied West Bank with hundreds of
Palestinian protesters taken to the
streets in
[Applause]
rala demonstrators marched in solidarity
with the people of Gaza after the
Israeli air strike on the Al Ali Baptist
Hospital there were confrontations with
security forces it's been reported that
one Palestinian demonstrator has been
killed by Israeli forces in a village
near
ramalo well Palestinian president Mahmud
Abbas has announced the attack on the
Baptist hospital as a hideous Massacre
saying Palestinians will not be forced
from their
lands Israel's government has no red
lines anymore and it should be held
responsible and punished
since the beginning of the aggression
there's been Bloodshed given tonight's
Massacre I decided to cancel my visit
and come back home to be with my people
during these hard
times we will not surrender but what is
important is we will stay on our land we
will not leave our land and we will not
allow anyone to force us to leave as
they did in the past the past will not
repeat itself 1948 and 1967's events
will not happen again
well the Israeli Prime Minister has
denied that Israel was involved in the
bombing of the Baptist Hospital in Gaza
in a social media message on X formerly
known as Twitter Netanyahu said the
entire world should know it was barbaric
terrorists in Gaza that attacked the
hospital and not the IDF those who
brutally murdered our children also
murdered their own children well Imran
Khan joins us live now from occupied
East Jerusalem Iman so what more
reaction have we had then from the
Israelis about the bombing of the Arab
Baptist Hospital in Gaza and of course
that un School
shelter well
once yeah that's right well once uh the
Prime Minister actually tweeted uh that
was backed up by lots more tweets from
Israeli officials they included uh
president Isaac Herzog they also
included Benny Gans who's part of the
war cabinet they are squarely blaming
Islamic Jihad uh for this attack however
um we have heard from Islamic Jihad
they've denied all of this so there's
this information War that's going on
right now and this is very typical of
the Israelis they do this every time
there is an attack that doesn't quite go
with their narrative or doesn't quite go
with what they want to present to the
world which is Israel's right to defend
itself now remember Shireen Abu our
colleague who was killed um inine um in
2022 um that attack actually during the
early hours of it the Israelis said it
was Palestinian gunman they muddied the
water they put out information so it can
it it distracts people a couple of days
later they turned around and went
actually sorry yes it was us no one's
been charged for that attack uh but they
did admit it was them whether that
happens uh this time around we don't
know but it's a very typically Israeli
thing to do also uh the Anglican Church
who owns the building who run the
building uh the hospital that was bombed
have said it was the Israelis msf
several other people have said it it was
uh the Israelis you heard from Prime
president Mahmud abasa also confirming
that ryad mansur the Palestinian
ambassador to the United Nations also
saying it was the Israelis and now you
see all of these protests taking place
uh across um the Arab world uh against
the US and Israeli embassies there so we
are in this middle of this information
war and expect the Israelis to continue
that message uh blaming Islamic Jihad
but like we say uh Islamic Jihad have
actually denied it was them um IM we
know that US President Joe Biden's on
his way to Israel I mean this Hospital
bombing uh will surely complicate his
trip remind us what Biden's hoping to
achieve he's it's an unprecedented visit
firstly let's get that out the way
completely what he's doing is coming to
a place that is an active war zone now
yes he did go to Ukraine um but he went
to Ukraine to ke when it was relatively
safe here there's a very complicated
situation he's going to fly into borian
airport he was supposed to go to Jordan
and meet with prime minister um uh sorry
president Abdul CCE also of Egypt who's
also supposed to meet with King Abdullah
of Jordan and Prime president Mahmud
Abbas that actually got canceled it was
firstly it was Mahmud Abbas who actually
can
on President joee Biden I think he was
incredibly frustrated that there was no
ceasefire so now he's actually flying
straight to borian airport the Arab
Street the Palestinian street is going
to be looking at this visit and the
those was two overarch overarching
narratives here one from the Palestinian
Street just going well now at least we
know who he's supporting and there's no
um we we know that he's not lying about
trying to actually get a ceasefire and
the other one is well we've actually
been abandoned by the west but there's a
much more interesting Dynamic here as
well remember I just talked about Mahmud
Abbas Mahmud Abbas has no uh influence
over Hamas or any influence over the
Israelis the International Community was
uh the only real Avenue open uh to him
and now he doesn't even have that
anymore he doesn't have that
relationship with President Joe Biden
they they're not going to talk so that's
actually been shut down so that's going
to be a concern for the international
diplomatic community but for the
Palestinians who simply say well
actually we weren't getting anything
that we wanted even the basics that we
wanted a ceasefire and humanitarian
Corridor we weren't getting that so what
is what was the point of sitting in that
meeting um imra just a final thought to
you I mean we've seen Palestinian
protests break out uh right across the
occupied West Bank certainly in rala and
other places tensions clearly High
across the occupied territories and
Palestinians are also extremely angry at
president Mahmud
Abbas
that's absolutely right but let me just
tell you I spent since October the 7th
in rala and you arrived here in occupied
East Jerusalem today the protests that
took place were peaceful uh they were
small but they were frequent that were
happening throughout the day there would
be 10020 200 people they'd come into
Manara Square in the center of ramala
and then they would leave but today's
events have been unprecedented the
hospital bombing simply angered
Palestinian to the point where they came
into the square and they were chanting
for president Mahmud abas to step down
and that's when the uh PA Security
Forces got involved when they were
chanting for Gaza when they were
chanting in support of the people of
Gaza and the plight that they're in that
extreme situation they're in the uh
Palestinian Authority Security Forces
allowed them to but the minute they
started to criticize U president Mahmud
Abbas that's when they decided to to
crack down this may well backfire
against President makas because um he's
stuck between a rock and a hard place he
understands that there's a lot of
support for the people of Gaza on the
streets of the occupied West
Bank by not going to see President Joe
Biden that may go some way to appease
these protesters but when you see
pictures like the ones we've just been
seeing from that hospital bombing people
are they don't the Palestinians are now
United because this is Palestinians that
are being attacked in Gaza and remember
the occupied West Bank and Gaza aren't
silos they're not separate countries a
lot of the people in the occupied West
Bank have relations have friends have
cousins have family members some who
they've never seen because of the
blockade living in Gaza these are these
are connected people so they are all
Palestinians at the end of the day and
those pictures brought out the anger in
them and I haven't seen that anger uh
since October the 7th all right aler
enan Khan their life rest Us in occupied
East Jerusalem Iran thank
you well speaking alongside ambassadors
from Arab countries palestine's
ambassador to the UN blamed Israel for
Tuesday night's air strike on that
hospital in
Gaza we hold Israel responsible for this
massacre this crime and those
responsible for this crime should face
Justice and should face
accountability and should be you know
punishment uh uh rising to the level of
this crime committed against our people
to be faced by them we as an Arab group
demand immediately a ceasefire because
the continuation of the war it means
killing more Palestinians every moment
well the UN Secretary General Antonio
GES has also expressed outrage at the
massacre in a statement on social media
GIS said I am horrified by the killing
of hundreds of Palestinian civilians in
a strike on a hospital in Gaza today
which I strongly condemn my heart is
with the families of the victims
hospitals and medical personnel are
protected under International
humanitarian law well Gabriel Alando
joins us live now from un headquarters
in New York Gabe so a very strong
statement from the UN Chief Antonio KES
what more can you tell us about that
statement after the hospital bombing in
Gaza yeah that statement uh from
Gutierrez just came over in the last 10
or 15 minutes or so you'll notice in
that statement it's the first time we've
heard any public comment uh from the
Secretary General since that hospital
attack you'll notice what he did not say
though he did not uh call for an
immediate ceasefire as the Arab
ambassadors are demanding and pushing
for and he did also did not place blame
on that hospital attack yet either we
are hearing from from uh secretary
General's office that he is working on a
more extensive statement and we could be
getting that in the next hour or so so
be watching that very closely as you
mentioned there you saw the within the
last couple hours uh more than a dozen
ambassadors uh from Arab countries spoke
they were unified in their front uh
calling primarily for one thing one
thing only uh at least right now and
that's an immediate ceasefire now the UN
Security Council voted against that uh
uh yesterday uh there was a Russian
draft resolution that called for an
immediate ceasefire that was voted down
uh the US France Japan and the UK voted
it down it did not have enough votes to
go forward uh and now we are hearing and
this is important uh tomorrow or
Wednesday uh morning there is going to
be a briefing uh by the
top un officials on humanitarian a uh
humanitarian Affairs a briefing that was
called by the security Council by Russia
and the UAE where they are going to get
a briefing about the hospital attack but
perhaps equally as important during that
meeting uh Brazil has called for a vote
on their draft resolution that call that
calls for among other things a
humanitarian pause in hostilities in
Gaza so uh the a foreign aid and
humanitarian Aid can get inside so a lot
of moving Parts at un headquarters right
now and a lot of things coming up in the
coming hours as well yeah Gabe as you
say the Diplomatic effort remains
extremely fluid at the moment we were
hearing earlier that Russia and the UAE
uh were calling for an emergency
security council meeting over uh that
hospital bombing just talk us through
that yeah that was called a few hours
ago uh that was by Russia and the UAE
and this is the 10A am meeting on
Wednesday that I was referring to uh and
at this meeting they are going to be
briefed by two of the top un officials
on humanitarian Affairs uh we expect
this to be an open meeting and because
Russia feels quite frankly that because
their draft resolution was shot down uh
that called for an immediate ceasefire
that was shot down about 24 hours ago
Russia is basically saying and even the
Arab ambassadors are saying the same
thing if the security Council agreed to
that we could possibly have been in a
situation where we had a ceasefire on
Tuesday and this Hospital uh strike
would not have happened I mean that's
all of course speculation at this point
because uh of course but that's
essentially so that's why Russia and the
UAE uh again both of who of who voted
for this draft resolution that was
unsuccessful now are calling for this
meeting uh at 10:00 a.m. on Wednesday
now to get this briefing so again we
expect it to be an open briefing we'll
be able to to hear what is being said
and at the same time probably just as
important as we're expecting Brazil to
call a a vote on their draft resolution
as well it's unclear uh if if that draft
resolution will be voted uh for or not
uh the US and the UK and France have not
given any indications if they're willing
to vote for that which would cause for
humanitarian pause there are so many
events happening right now uh related to
this war so much diplomacy going on
behind the scenes right now uh the
situation here at the UN headquarters is
almost changing by the hour yeah Gabe um
just a final thought to you me you
touched briefly on the humanitarian uh
situation I mean how worried uh is the
United Nations the security Council Etc
about the worsening situation in Gaza
because the pictures we're seeing and
they're seeing on their TV screens are
absolutely
horrific they are uh I've been covering
the UN off and on uh for several years
years now and I don't think I've ever
seen the UN so concerned about the
humanitarian condition that they're
seeing right now in Gaza and they the UN
as we all know deals with a lot of
humanitarian crisises all over the world
but the sense of urgency that you're
seeing from various un officials and
various un uh departments and and and so
for example unra uh is really something
that we have not seen in many many years
they are very worried because they
cannot get the necessary humanitarian
Aid to people that need it and even un
facilities as we've been reporting today
Tuesday uh with this un school that was
hit this is uh several un schools that
were hit incl including two that were
housing internally displaced people and
the fact that un the UN cannot get any
sort of Aid in there and they cannot get
their people out or other people in is
really and this is a word we've been
using for the last week but it really is
true unprecedented and that's what un
officials are saying they are facing an
absolutely unprecedented crisis in
trying to do their jobs as humanitarians
of trying to protect people innocent
people uh in this conflict and not only
protect them but provide Aid comfort and
security the UN officials there saying
we simply can no longer do it all right
Gabriel alander live for us there from
un headquarters in New York Gabe thank
you now US President Joe Biden is on his
way to Israel and has postponed a
planned Summit in Jordan with Arab
leaders following Tuesday's attack on
the alahi Arab Hospital in Gaza the
White House announced a change in
schedule as Biden took off from the US
Mike Hanah reports from
Washington Joe Biden leaves the white
house on an unprecedented Journey a US
president traveling to Israel as it
wages
War the prime intention to visibly
demonstrate us support in the most
dramatic of
ways he goes with the full backing of
Congress the US Senate at work to push
through a buil providing material Aid to
Israel as well as humanitarian relief
for Palestinians the Senate must above
all work quickly and swiftly to draft
consider and pass a strong Aid package
for Israel as soon as we can that
includes Military Support intelligence
support diplomatic help the Senate
minority leader adds other elements to
the presidential to-do list he need to
make it clear that his administration
will do everything possible to keep
Israel the time and the space it needs
to conduct the required military
operations for as long as it takes how
many more hold out sir the house is
still in turmoil with majority
Republicans sharply divided over
ideology leadership and policy yet
amidst this division there is one point
of agreement among all support for the
state of Israel well I think the
resolution first to show that the
American people through their
representatives support Israel and
condemn Hamas and these Terror attacks
the deadline to refunding the government
is fast approaching but for most
Republicans the priority is to get a
pro-israel bill through the house this
on top of the $3.3 billion a year that
Congress has never
contested the US was the first country
in the world to recognize Israel the
recognition by President Truman coming
only 11 minutes after the provisional
government declared statehood on May the
14th
1948 and President Biden is likely to
point to the drive to pass an Israel
bill in the Senate and the house as
clear evidence that recognition and
support has never wavered Mye Hanah AER
Washington well US President Joe Biden
says he's outraged by the explosion at
the AL AI Baptist Hospital in a
statement he said I'm outraged and
deeply saddened by the explosion at the
Arab Hospital in Gaza and the terrible
loss of life that resulted immediately
upon hearing this news I spoke with King
Abdullah of Jordan and prime minister
Netanyahu of Israel and have directed my
National Security team to continue
gathering information about what exactly
happened the United States stands
unequivocally for the protection of
civan life during conflict and we mourn
the patients medical staff and other
Innocents killed or wounded in this
tragedy let's get more now from Mike
Hannah he joins us live from Washington
DC so it seems events are already
overtaking President Biden's visit to
Israel Mike the jordanians have cancel
their Summit with Biden and earlier as
we've been saying we saw that horrific
Hospital bombing in Gaza what impact
will all of this have on Biden's trip do
you make do you
think well it's already had a major
impact um President Biden was in his
mcade on his way to Joint Base Andrews
when the Jordanian foreign minister
confirmed that that meeting in Aman had
been cancelled uh the prior to that
mahmed abas the Palestinian leader had
also turned down the meeting he returned
to rala in the wake of this bombing in
Gaza so already you've had an impact the
White House itself says uh that the
meeting has been cancelled uh because of
this event to give everybody a period of
mourning but it does have an impact on
the Biden visit now one of the reasons
why President Biden is going to the
region is to attempt to prevent a
widening of the conflict that's what his
secretary of state has been doing during
a Whistle Stop diplomacy tour in the
region in recent days President Biden
wants to add his voice to this to
reassure us allies that he's working
towards calming the situation down not
wanting to see any spreading of the
conflict but we've seen that conflict
spread in the course of the day the
demonstrations that are erupting in many
areas in the region so this has made
President Biden's visit far more
difficult it's raised the heat on what
he's doing and is casting sharp focus on
those critics of the United States and
his relationship with Israel in terms of
that relationship at a time when many
believe that what has happened is a a
tributal to the state of Israel that is
something as we heard there that
President Biden says his intelligence
agencies are investigating but it
certainly comes at a very very
problematic time for President Biden as
he heads towards the Middle East for
this virtually unprecedented visit going
to Israel in a time of War yeah Mike and
and that's an important point you make
because with protests now taking place
across many Arab countries in the region
how much secur security concern is there
for President Biden as you say he's
going straight into an active war
zone well I think whenever US president
travels there's always security concern
but as you point out this is an
increasingly heighten situation one must
remember that President Biden did travel
into Ukraine at the height of that
particular War uh so it is not
unprecedented for him to go into a war
zone but the situation is so intense
that obviously there is a element of
security risk one that his advisers have
clearly closely looked at and as I say
the whole visit was uh positioned on
discussions with prime minister
Netanyahu on reaching out to us Arab
allies in the region the whole intention
being to try and level the drop the
level of the conflict but also very
importantly we've heard from the Biden
Administration
to get humanitarian efforts into place
uh we've heard from Administration
officials repeatedly in recent days uh
that this humanitarian effort is
absolutely essential for those
Palestinians who have no relationship
whatsoever with Hamas and who are
suffering in this current conflict now
this is a slight shift in the US
position uh from the beginning of the
conflict in which uh there were no calls
for restraint but now you've got uh the
US in the National Security Chief
adviser for example saying that Israel
too has a role to play in humanitarian
relief along with others in uh in the
region so all of these elements are
coming together President Biden
threading a very thin needle here in
terms of maintaining what he says is US
unquestion support for Israel with
questions coming from allies uh like the
president of Egypt like the King of
Jordan about the role that Israel is
playing in this conflict so the US
president attempting to balance all
these issues out and this made all the
more dire by what happened in Gaza in
the course of the day Mike just a final
quick thought to you I mean there have
been some hints that a further uh us
mobilization aside from those two
aircraft carrier groups uh any word on
troops on the ground
possibly well as you say you have got
two carrier fleets having been sent to
the region that's a massive show of
force you've also got Marine
Expeditionary Unit which has been moved
in there we understand from the Pentagon
now that is a different uh level altoe
in a way the Marine Expeditionary Unit
is there with Marines on board sometimes
for a landing also of course it is used
in a way of moving uh people out of
combat conflict zones but the ramping up
of a US military presence in that
particular region is a sign of the
concern of the US Administration about
what is happening there and also a not
too subtle signal to Iran who some Hawks
within the US claim are actually trying
to seek opportunity in this situation
this massive uh us buildup both at Sea
and also in the air lots of new aircraft
being sent into the region uh so all of
these things are coming together in the
US gradually getting involved to a
greater degree in this conflict than it
has on occasions in the past all right
Al jaaz is Mike Hannah there live for us
in Washington DC Mike thank you let's
bring in Abdel hammed sayam he's a
professor of political science and
Middle East studies at ruas University
he was also